{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2865
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This week, I worked on my individual submission requirement of adding elevation and grade to the track profile and incorporating its effects into the simulation. Elevation was generated inside gentrack.m using a smooth logistic rise and fall along the main straights. I then computed the slope by taking the numerical derivative of the elevation with respect to distance. This slope was converted into grade, where positive values correspond to uphill segments and negative values correspond to downhill segments. The vehicle's position along the track is used to evaluate this slope during the simulation, allowing the drivetrain and longitudinal dynamics to experience realistic gravitational loading.\
I also added the required analysis outputs to p4_runsim.m, including elevation and slope plots, lateral deviation statistics, yaw rate tracking, battery power usage, and an efficiency estimate. These results appear automatically after the simulation completes.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Instructions to Run:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Open the following MATLAB and Simulink files:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
gentrack.m\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
p4_init.m\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
p4_runsim.m\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
raceStat.m\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
rotate.m\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
computeDeviation.m\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
p4_car_colton_update1.slx\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 To run the simulation:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run the p4_init.m script.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Then run p4_runsim.m.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Wait for the simulation to finish (12 mins)\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
After completion, the command window will display a summary, and all required plots (track, speed tracking, battery behavior, elevation, slope, etc.) will be generated automatically. Srill in the process of debugging so it is a work in progress. Need to fix the simulink i wasnt able to before. \
}